VEP 80: Enable TDX and SEV-SNP (#79)
kubevirt/enhancements: veps/sig-compute/tdx-sev-snp-proposal.md

## Release Signoff Checklist

Items marked with (R) are required *prior to targeting to a milestone / release*.

- [ ] (R) Enhancement issue created, which links to VEP dir in [kubevirt/enhancements] (not the initial VEP PR)
- [ ] (R) Target version is explicitly mentioned and approved
- [ ] (R) Graduation criteria filled

## Overview
This proposal deals with the enablement of the following technologies: Intel
TDX & AMD Secure Encrypted Virtualization with Secure Nested Paging (SEV-SNP)
in kubevirt. This enablement includes the support for creating confidential VMs
by using TDX & SEV-SNP by encrypting VM memory. For AMD, SEV is currently
supported in KubeVirt, and this VEP proposes to build on top of this feature
and integrates SEV-SNP support.

## Motivation
Organizations are now asking for workloads to include the strongest
confidential computing security guarantees.

For AMD, KubeVirt supports SEV and SEV-ES for memory encryption, but lacks
SEV-SNP enhanced memory integrity protection.

For Intel, Add support for TDX technology for in-use memory encryption of
confidential guests.

## Goals
- Enable TDX VM Deployment: Provide users the ability to deploy VMs that are

>   utilizing INTEL TDX technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  utilizing Intel TDX technology.
```

- Enable SEV-SNP VM Deployment: Provide users the ability to deploy VMs that
  are utilizing AMD SEV-SNP technology.

> - Extend the existing SEV Feature: Currently the SEV sits behind the
>   WorkloadEncryptionSEV adding SEV-SNP to feature is the next logical step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Extend the existing SEV Feature: The SEV feature is currently in the alpha phase.
  Extending it with SEV-SNP is the next logical step.
```

- Extend Existing SEV Infrastructure: Use the existing SEV node labeling,
  scheduling, and domain generation infrastructure.

## Non Goals
- TDX & SEV-SNP Live Migration: Live migrations are currently not supported by

>   either technologies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  either technologies. Goal: mark confidential-computing-enabled VMs as non-migratable.
```

Reviewer: Either way, it's kind of a goal about a non-goal :) Just though it was worth mentioning somewhere.

Reviewer: This is just to make sure the implementation prevents VMs from migrating, instead of letting them try and fail.

- All TDX & SEV-SNP libvirt XML configurations those would be use cases situations.
- Custom Attestation Services: Only focus on the enabling the capabilities
  through the standard interfaces and not building a custom attestation
  infrastructure.
- SEV migration: No automatic upgrade path from SEV/SEV-ES to SEV-SNP, this
  will be required to be done by explicit user configuration.
- Confidential Devices Support.

## Definition of Users
- Cluster Admins: Responsible for enabling and managing SEV-SNP & TDX
  capabilities in Kubernetes Clusters.
- Developers: Deploys confidential workloads that require SEV-SNP & TDX.

## User Stories
- As a Cluster Admin, I want to enable TDX on cluster nodes so that Developers
  can deploy Confidential Compute workloads with TDX enabled.
- As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct
  labeling that shows the correct TDX labels are showing up on my nodes.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs on a platform with TDX protection to
  meet compliance requirements for memory integrity.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs without needing to understand the low

>   level INTEL technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  level Intel technology.
```

- As a Cluster Admin, I want to enable SEV-SNP on cluster nodes so that
  Developers can deploy Confidential Compute workloads with SEV-SNP enabled.
- As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct
  labeling that shows the correct SEV and SEV-SNP labels are showing up on my
  nodes.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs on a platform with SEV-SNP protection to
  meet compliance requirements for memory integrity.

> - As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs without needing to understand the low
>   level AMD technology.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs without needing to understand the low-level
  confidential computing technologies.
```

Reviewer: Ah yes, missed that, I think so.

## Repos

- [KubeVirt](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt)

## Design

### Common Features

> Both designs rely on labelling those nodes capable to running CVMs. In addition

Reviewer: Please define CVM

> to labeling, the node "key ID" resources registers how many CVMs per node can

Reviewer: What are `"key ID" resources registers`?

The node labeller will detect SEV-SNP capabilities from the LibVirt domain capabilities then
apply the label to the node, while the node selector renderer will be extended to include
SEV-SNP scheduling.

### Security Considerations
- The infrastructure provider and the VMI author are untrusted. For example,
  the infrastructure provider is always capable of injecting random cloud-init
  stuff behind our back. So if an instance of a secret application runs inside
  a CVM, via cloud-init, an infrastructure provider or a hacker could simply
  execute random commands inside this VM.

## API Examples
The bellow yaml snippets provide examples of how to request TDX feature in the
VMI spec.

### API Examples for Intel TDX

- TDX VM with default options

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  ...
spec:
  domain:
    launchSecurity:
      tdx: {}
  ...
```

### API Examples for AMD

- Basic SEV-SNP with default options

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  name: sev-snp-vm
spec:
  domain:
    launchSecurity:
      snp: {}
  ...
```

## Alternatives

## Scalability

## Update/Rollback Compatibility

> - All new fields are fields should be optional

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- All new fields are optional and disabled by default
```

- This should not impact existing VMs
- AMD SEV Compatibility:
  - The AMD SEV-SNP feature sits behind the existing SEV feature gate without
    breaking changes
  - Node labels are added, no labels are removed.

## Functional Testing Approach
- Unit testing to detect TDX & SEV-SNP from the libvirt capabilities.

> - Since TDX & SEV-SNP does not have support for nested virtualization this will
>   require bare metal hardware to conduct e2e testing.

Reviewer: Do we have plans to acquire such hardware? Will it be available before the end of the implementation phase? Also, integrating the hardware to CI and creating test lanes should probably be an implementation phase.
```suggestion
- Since TDX & SEV-SNP do not have support for nested virtualization this will
  require bare metal hardware to conduct e2e testing.
```

Reviewer 2: > Do we have plans to acquire such hardware? 

I'm working on this for TDX.

> ## Implementation Phases

Reviewer: Please talk about functest here.

Author: @jean-edouard what are functest? Do you have an example? Thanks.

Reviewer: Functional tests, e2e. Similar comment as above basically, sorry for the confusion (the command to run them is `make functest`)

> # VEP #77: Enable TDX and SEV-SNP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# VEP #80: Enable TDX and SEV-SNP
```

## Goals
- Enable TDX VM Deployment: Provide users the ability to deploy VMs that are
  utilizing INTEL TDX technology.
- Enable SEV-SNP VM Deployment: Provide users the ability to deploy VMs that
  are utilizing AMD SEV-SNP technology.
- Extend the existing SEV Feature: Currently the SEV sits behind the
  WorkloadEncryptionSEV adding SEV-SNP to feature is the next logical step.
- Extend Existing SEV Infrastructure: Use the existing SEV node labeling,
  scheduling, and domain generation infrastructure.

## Non Goals
- TDX & SEV-SNP Live Migration: Live migrations are currently not supported by
  either technologies.
- Custom Attestation Services: Only focus on the enabling the capabilities
  through the standard interfaces and not building a custom attestation
  infrastructure.
- SEV migration: No automatic upgrade path from SEV/SEV-ES to SEV-SNP, this
  will be required to be done by explicit user configuration.
- Confidential Devices Support.

## Definition of Users
- Cluster Admins: Responsible for enabling and managing SEV-SNP & TDX
  capabilities in Kubernetes Clusters.
- Developers: Deploys confidential workloads that require SEV-SNP & TDX.

## User Stories

> - As a Cluster Admin, I want to enable TDX on cluster nodes so that tenants can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- As a Cluster Admin, I want to enable TDX on cluster nodes so that Developers can
```

Author: Is not tenants the right wording?

  can deploy Confidential Compute workloads with TDX enabled.

> - As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct

Reviewer 3: in order to get verifyable quote, one needs to register the machine with intel and the signed cert needs to be fetched form intel to be part of the quote, right? If a machine is registered or not is not easy to see on a machine. So if you are getting a verifyable quote or just a quote is not easy to say at scheduling time with the current proposal.

> - As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct

Reviewer 3: What I try to express: It would be great to explore if we can somehow ensure scheduling to registered machines only, for the sake of providing consistent quote experience inside the VMs. But not sure we need this discussion at that point.

> - As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct

Reviewer 2: > ensure scheduling to registered machines only

it's a valid point, I can think about this on what'd be the ways to do it.

> - As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct

Author: > TDX also has a concept of registered and unregistered hosts, where quotes can be verified or not. I wonder if we want to express that with some scheduling constraint as well. It is not so easy to figure that out though. One possibility would be letting virt-handler ask PCCS (the cluster cache) for the host cert.
> 
> However that can probably de discussed in a follow-up proposal.

should I add something about this to a future section?

> - As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct

Author: > However that can probably de discussed in a follow-up proposal.
Based on this comment, I will resolve the conversation and address it in a follow-up proposal.

  labeling that shows the correct TDX labels are showing up on my nodes.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs on a platform with TDX protection to
  meet compliance requirements for memory integrity.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs without needing to understand the low
  level INTEL technology.
- As a Cluster Admin, I want to enable SEV-SNP on cluster nodes so that tenants
  can deploy Confidential Compute workloads with SEV-SNP enabled.
- As a Cluster Admin, I need to ensure that my clusters have the correct
  labeling that shows the correct SEV and SEV-SNP labels are showing up on my
  nodes.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs on a platform with SEV-SNP protection to
  meet compliance requirements for memory integrity.
- As a Developer, I want to deploy VMs without needing to understand the low
  level AMD technology.

## Repos

- [KubeVirt](https://github.com/kubevirt/kubevirt)

## Design

### TDX Design
A new TDX Feature Gate should be added first. Extend the node labeller to

> detect and label nodes capable of running TDX VMs, a corresponding node

Reviewer 2: In addition to labeling, we need to register the node "key ID" resources on how many CVMs per node can be created to the scheduler and automatically consume one resource per CVM. This is applicable to both TDX and SNP and the available resources are available under `/sys/fs/cgroup/misc.capacity`.

Author: I am not sure if this is pertinent here but we have also to bear in mind that socket device plugin has a number of max instances, i.e., `c.maxDevices` in my poc, this limits the number of VMs that can access the qgs unix socket.

Reviewer 4: Thanks. I will look into this, currently it looks the file /sys/fs/cgroup/misc.capacity is not exposed yet.

Reviewer 3: > I am not sure if this is pertinent here but we have also to bear in mind that socket device plugin has a number of max instances, i.e., c.maxDevices in my poc, this limits the number of VMs that can access the qgs unix socket.

A socket is not a working target for a device plugin necessarily. It works on cri-o but containerd complains for instance. In general if you still end up with a socket device plugin, you can just give it a high number like 1000 (just more than a reasonable amount of VMs is).

Author: > A socket is not a working target for a device plugin necessarily. It works on cri-o but containerd complains for instance. In general if you still end up with a socket device plugin, you can just give it a high number like 1000 (just more than a reasonable amount of VMs is).

Are you suggesting to use a different method than a device plugin for the QGS socket?

Reviewer 3: > I see, I think we won't rely on vsock. What do you mean with out-of-band?

virt-handle can bind-mount the socket into the container, but that would be kind  of the last resort.

Two ways to explore would come to my mind:
 1. A CSI plugin. We would basically mount a QGS volume where the CSI plugin can ensure the socket is mounted in to the volume >
  2. DRA maybe. Since it would be more flexible.
  
  There may be other ways as well.

Reviewer 2: > I'm looking for guidance on where to register this as a new resource.

In CoCo we register this as an extended resource using NFD and one key resource is consumed as part of `RuntimeClass`es podoverhead. I think we should also tie this to the same resource somehow so that both CoCo TEE pods and KubeVirt TEE VMs can run simultaneously.

Reviewer 2: Sure, it's fairly simple: NFD let's you [register](https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/node-feature-discovery/v0.17/usage/customization-guide.html?highlight=extended%20resource#extendedresources) kubernetes [extended resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/extended-resource-node/). It does not have to be NFD to do that but that's what we use since it knows about node TEE capabilities.

Each pod consumes one key resource. Instead of forcing users to specify the resources (and/or to avoid doing it in a webhook), we just piggyback Pod overhead spec that let's you add any resource type as the pod consumed node resource:

```
apiVersion: node.k8s.io/v1
kind: RuntimeClass
metadata:
  name: kata-cc
handler: kata-qemu-tdx
overhead:
  podFixed:
    memory: "350Mi"
    cpu: "250m"
    tdx.intel.com/keys: 1
scheduling:
  nodeSelector:
     intel.feature.node.kubernetes.io/tdx: "true"
```

It does not have to be done like this for KubeVirt if there already is a place where the resources consumed by the VM are added. For SNP, we register `sev-snp.amd.com/esids` and TDX `tdx.intel.com/key`.

Reviewer 3: > Sorry, I do not understand something, if I only care about virt-handler, why can't I use a device plugin to end up mounting the unix socket in the virt-launcher?

Mostly because containerd will tell you: Hey this thing you try to mount is not a device node.

Reviewer 3: > Sure, it's fairly simple: NFD let's you [register](https://kubernetes-sigs.github.io/node-feature-discovery/v0.17/usage/customization-guide.html?highlight=extended%20resource#extendedresources) kubernetes [extended resources](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/administer-cluster/extended-resource-node/). It does not have to be NFD to do that but that's what we use since it knows about node TEE capabilities.

Nice. That looks like a nice solution for capacity. I wonder if we should still do that in virt-handler (with a kubevirt.io/ resource) and follow the example of NFD. In general self-sufficiency to avoid dependencies to other projects for small overlaps was quite useful for kubevirt, since other component remain more optional, making it easier to deploy in various envs.

Reviewer 2: > Mostly because containerd will tell you: Hey this thing you try to mount is not a device node.

Sounds like something is wrong with the KubeVirt implementation? Device plugin API allows you to separate `Mounts[]` and `Devices[]`. This would be about `Mounts[]`.

One more alternative to mounts could be a custom NRI plugin.

Reviewer 3: > Sounds like something is wrong with the KubeVirt implementation? Device plugin API allows you to separate Mounts[] and Devices[]. This would be about Mounts[].

That's probably it. Then disregard my comments regarding that before. I guess we could use this as well for tdx capacity then.

Author: I mark it as done since I addressed the first comment. Feel free to reopen otherwise.

selector can be added to VM pods so they are scheduled correctly. TDX
parameters need to be specified via the `launchSecurity` element of the Libvirt
domain xml:
```xml
   <domain>
     ...
     <launchSecurity type='tdx'>
       <policy>0x10000001</policy>
       <mrConfigId>xxx</mrConfigId>
       <mrOwner>xxx</mrOwner>
       <mrOwnerConfig>xxx</mrOwnerConfig>
       <quoteGenerationSocket path="/var/run/tdx-qgs/qgs.socket"/>
     </launchSecurity>
     ...
   </domain>
```
All parameters are optional. Note the Libvirt support is not ready in upstream,
refer to the
https://github.com/intel/libvirt-tdx/commit/962325568e67014c2ff2e41a673374fafd44e385

> for the explanation of the parameters. From the implementation perspective,

Reviewer 4: hi @MatiasVara , would you please help to update it? libvirt supports TDX now. Thanks.

extend the VMI spec to map to the parameters:

```xml
   spec:
     domain:
       launchSecurity:
         tdx:
           policy: 0x10000000

>            mrConfigId: xxx

Reviewer 3: I have been reading a little bit about these mr fields here: https://lore.kernel.org/qemu-devel/31d6dbc1-f453-4cef-ab08-4813f4e0ff92@intel.com/. 

We may want to hold off adding them now. They may be worth extra discussiosn on use-case and also if some of this data is more suited for secrets than direct VMI spec.

AFAIK cloud-providers don't support this atm. I would not expect high demeand for that, but maybe you have use-cases, but then would be great to see them in the doc.

Reviewer 3: A minimal viable support which would offer TDX with or without QGS (where QGS would be configured KubeVirt wide) would imo be:

```
   spec:
     domain:
       launchSecurity:
         tdx: {}
```

Reviewer 3: > any feedback on the suggestion unify the api between the TEEs? with the use-case (i.e., what KubeVirt can offer) based approach, one use case would be enabled the same way independent of the CVM arch.

I think it is tricky, due to a few factors:

 1. on the same arch (x86_64) there exist two implementations already (AMD, Intel)
 2. inside the guest it makes a difference if I land on Intel or AMD (quote lifecycle, ...)
 3. as a consequence, the VM creator has to know about image creation for which architecture to take measurements and potentially prepare in-guest flows to use the right tools to get and verify quotes
 
I guess that can be abstracted away by users and by smart usage of guest tooling (like probing if it is intel or amd and doing different stratup flows, by taking measurements for both, ...).

Reviewer 2: FWIW, For Linux guests there's a unified ABI (TSM reports) for generating quotes. It works the same way for TDX/SNP/CCA.

Reviewer 4: Hi @rmohr, in a previous trustee POC I worked on using both SNP and TDX, we used the SNP hostData and TDX mrConfigId fields to distinguish between different VMs in our resource policy, e.g.
```
    allow if {
      path[2] == "kbsres1"
      input["submods"]["cpu"]["ear.status"] != "contraindicated"
      input["submods"]["cpu"]["ear.veraison.annotated-evidence"]["init_data"] == init_data_vm1
    }
```
In which "init_data" equals to hostData for SNP or mrConfigId decoded by base64 for TDX.

Azure provides another way to inject init data to VM by Cloud-Init(https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/virtual-machines/custom-data).  

Of course, the mrOwner and mrOwnerConfig are also listed in the evidence claims, but currently I didn't know any use case for them:

```
      "quote": {
        "body": {
          "mr_config_id": "fe2756ef7ed92c6fafa9fd8a8f884c2394fd4b7c26c0638490a1a3aac4b1ffa0338ac13a6ef0005bd8802d1f03679cdd",
          "mr_owner": "000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
          "mr_owner_config": "000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000",
```
So IMO we need to consider mrConfigId and hostData at least.

Reviewer 2: `initdata` is a CoCo construct. What would be the KubeVirt equivalent use-case?

Author: > > There is potentially some cloud-init injection risk of unwanted things
> 
> I think this VEP could say a few words about (planned) mitigation options.

do you have something in mind?

Reviewer 4: hi @mythi 

> As I see it, the trust model here is such that whatever is specified in a `VirtualMachineInstance` is untrusted from the VM perspective and the (confidential) guest must somehow be aware of this. For this initial VEP (and implementation), I'd at least add a note about the trust model assumptions and the fact that some of the `VirtualMachineInstance` capabilities are insure by default and something the guest VM design needs to take into account.
> 
> `cloud-init` injection is only one example but even things like `emptyDisk` be encrypted if confidential data is written to it by the VM.

Could we add the note in the attestation proposal or other proposals which introduce new VMI spec options in future? Because currently we don't introduce any option mapping to the libvirt launchsecurity option.

Reviewer 2: @MatiasVara I should be able to help with this part. I'll wait until we get the `launchSecurity` API story agreed.

Reviewer 5: > As I see it, the trust model here is such that whatever is specified in a `VirtualMachineInstance` is untrusted from the VM perspective and the (confidential) guest must somehow be aware of this. For this initial VEP (and implementation), I'd at least add a note about the trust model assumptions and the fact that some of the `VirtualMachineInstance` capabilities are insure by default and something the guest VM design needs to take into account.
> 
> `cloud-init` injection is only one example but even things like `emptyDisk` be encrypted if confidential data is written to it by the VM.

I'm still not clear here, why would the VMI but untrusted from the VM perspective? Isn't that the source of truth?

Reviewer 2: > Let me try to rephrase: The VM/VMI spec is the source of truth, but one point of CC VMs is that we don't have to trust the infrastructure provider.

This is the main message the initial VEP (this PR) should highlight (I can draft something here). We can probably get into the specifics and how to secure various flows in later stages.

           mrOwner: xxx
           mrOwnerConfig: xxx

>            qgs: true

Reviewer 2: I don't see much value for this `qgs` flag. what would be the case when this is set to `false`?

Reviewer 2: Qemu runs OK even when the socket is not available. The socket is only needed when the guest VM issues GetQuote request Qemu needs to service.

Author: maybe @zhencliu can comment on this.

Reviewer 3: +1 to @mythi that's not sumething a user has to care about. It may make sense to allow configuring in the main KubeVirt CR a QGS socket or not. In both cases you get quotes the same way inside the guest. Only difference, in one way you can get a quote inside the VM in the other case you can't get a quote. Also admins have to register the host so that the quotes are verifyable. Really not something which should be configured on the VM.

Reviewer 4: Hi @mythi and @rmohr, just to make sure I'm following correctly: if QGS is configured in the main KubeVirt CR, would this be a global setting that enables it for all TDX VMs?

If the answer is yes, then my follow-up question: Will there be a way for a user to launch a TDX VM without QGS for use cases where it's not required(e.g. people don't care about attestation, just start a TDX VM)?"

Reviewer 2: @zhencliu it's possible to start a TD VM with `quote-generation-socket` settings added even if the guest has no plans to use it.

Reviewer 4: Thanks, @mythi and @rmohr. Based on the discussion, I will remove the QGS flag from the API. I agree with the plan to proceed with the basic enablement for now and hold off on adding the mr configs

    // +optional
    IDAuth *string `json:"idAuth,omitempty"`
    // 32-byte base64 encoded user-defined blob to provide to the guest.
    // +optional
    HostData *string `json:"hostData,omitempty"`
    // Whether the guest is allowed to use VCEK for attestation reports. Set to false to disable VCEK usage.
    // +optional
    AuthorKey *bool `json:"authorKey,omitempty"`
    // Whether idAuth contains VCEK field for attestation
    // +optional
    VCEK *bool `json:"vcek,omitempty"`
    // Optional attribute to indicate whether the hashes of the kernel, and command line should be included in the measurement done by the firmware.
    KernelHashes *bool `json:"kernelHashes,omitempty"`
}
```
Similar to TDX, all elements for type=’sev-snp’, users should be able to
provide additional settings to configure their Confidential VM. Some options
should have a default value such as the policy if the user does not specify the
VM should be using the QEMU default policy.  The node labller will detect
SEV-SNP capabilities from the LibVirt domain capabilities then apply the label
to the node, while the node selector renderer will be extended to include
SEV-SNP scheduling.

> ## API Examples

Reviewer 2: The design proposal suggest that the API would be TEE specific. Would there be any desire to have more unified API so that the platform specifics could be hidden from the users? Just a very rough example of what I'm thinking:

```
 spec:
     domain:
       launchSecurity:
         tee: tdx
         debug: true
         hostConfig: <some host provided data that is measured into mrconfigid/hostdata>
```

Reviewer 5: I don't think this is necessary, all we are doing is mapping to libvirt XML so wouldn't it make sense to make the type the top level API? That's why I initially created a separate entry for SEV-SNP because the type in the XML is either `sev` or `sev-snp`. So my question is how is it mapped for Intel?

Reviewer 4: It might be hard to use a unified API for all kinds of tees, e.g.  IBM SE even doesn't have a similar option as hostData, even for SNP and TDX, the libvirt launchSecurity elments are quite different. Please refer to https://gitlab.com/libvirt/libvirt/-/blob/master/docs/formatdomain.rst?ref_type=heads#launch-security

Reviewer 2: If exposing libvirt XML API to the users is how KubeVirt works then it's clear. My suggestion was to see if we can make it use case driven and hide the TEE libvirt XML differences from users.

Reviewer 2: @MatiasVara we should keep the SNP aligned with TDX: if no use-cases are identified for the XML APIs, we'd leave them out for now.

Reviewer 3: Regarding `type` fields: API conventions in k8s are more leaning towards config subsections. Where fields with the same functions have the same name in their subsection. Otherwise you end up with a lot of "if that type then that field" which has to be propagated to documentation, validation, ...

Author: @alancaldelas would not the sev design section look like the tdx section? I mean very simple without any example before we resolve it?

The bellow yaml snippets provide examples of how to request TDX feature in the
VMI spec.

### API Examples for Intel TDX

- TDX VM with defaults settings

```yaml
apiVersion: kubevirt.io/v1
kind: VirtualMachineInstance
metadata:
  ...
spec:
  domain:
    launchSecurity:
      tdx: {}
  ...
```

- TDX VM with user-defined parameters (no qgs)

```yaml
   spec:
     domain:
       launchSecurity:
         tdx:
           policy: 0x10000000
           mrConfigId: xxx
```

> - TDX VM with qgs settings, note libvirt will use `/var/run/tdx-qgs/qgs.socket`

Reviewer 3: That seems outdated when qgs path was planned on the VMI api. KubeVirt should wire this transparently and either run with just TDX support or TDX+quote support.

Reviewer 4: I will update this part once we decide whether QGS should be configured by KubeVirt

Author: I will remove this from the document.
